hello everyone
this is our first lesson of the first
session of machine learning zoom camp
and in this lesson we will introduce
machine learning using a simple example
so we will talk about predicting the
price of a car and imagine we
are riding a
car classifieds website this is a
website where
you go if you want to sell your car or
this is a website where you go if you
want to buy a used car so for example i
work at twilight's and we also have a
section on the website for
selling cars and for buying cars and
this is what you see when you go on
leagues and you want to buy a car you
see different cars and you see pictures
of these cars you see prices of these
cars
and
imagine that there is a person
who wants to sell a car they do
is they take a picture
go to
our app
upload the picture put the title uh put
all the description
and then they
reach
this price field so they they need to
put the price
and this is difficult
you
don't want to put a price that is too
high because nobody will buy a car you
also don't want to put a price that is
too low because in this case you're
leaving money on the table right so
somebody maybe would buy a car for a
higher price right so you want to find a
price that is just right so
it's it's difficult so how do you do
this
um so what some people do is they go on
the website
uh
they look at existing ads and they try
to do some analysis to understand uh
how exactly they should
select the price table with similar ads
and based on that he
select the price that works
that probably works
but how can we
as the owners of this website help the
user
select the best price
and the answer is we can use machine
learning so let's first think what do we
know about cars already
so we know the price of these cars right
so this is uh this is what users
actually told us so we know the price
then we know uh age of a car
so we know when a car was manufactured
the older the car the cheaper it is
right then we also know uh the
manufacturer of a car so we know if
let's say if it's a bmw
then it's more expensive than a
volkswagen for example right so
manufacturer who made the car also
influences the price of car
then we know mileage
this is uh
uh how many kilometers the car drove so
far
then um yeah we have all these kind of
things that we know uh about the car
right so
also model
um number of doors and
everything else right
and usually using this information
an expert can determine the price so
let's say if you want to sell a car
through a dealership you go to this
dealership and an expert looks at the
car
and then knowing the year the
manufacturer mileage and all these
things an expert can determine how much
this car costs because they typically
know how much similar cars cost right so
based on the knowledge they can
determine that this particular car
that was manufactured on this year
by
this company with this mileage
usually costs that much right so expert
can do this and the way experts do this
is they learn this from data they
learned it from
looking at prices of our other
dealerships perhaps
so they basically needed to learn a lot
for that and then they extracted some
patterns and
they know that if a car is old then it's
less expensive and the more
uh car drove the
um
like the less expensive it becomes right
and things like this so they know this
because they have they are experts in
this area
and if an expert can do this so can a
model right
if we have a data set with all these
characteristics of a car and through the
prices
we can take a machine learning algorithm
put all this data there
and
model will learn all these patterns
itself
so this is the essence of machine
learning so we take data
and the model extracts patterns from the
data
and in this way
we can replicate what experts learn from
data as well
right
the information we know about the cars
is called features so all this age
manufacturer mileage and so on its
features it's everything we know about
cars
and target is what we want to predict so
this is what we want our model to
predict just looking at the at all the
features right so this is what we
interested in
we take
all our features and
we extract them for all the cars we have
so we have a table
then also we have a column with prices
and what we do next
is we take the features the target and
trainer model so a model he contains it
kind of
encapsulates all the patterns it learned
from the data
and then we can use this model to make
predictions for prices of cars for which
we don't know price so if we take just
features all the information about the
car we know except price because this is
what we want to predict we take all this
information
we take a model we put in
the model all this data and the model
outputs
the prediction the price right
and if we see um so the model is not
always able to correctly predict the
exact price of a very specific car
but the predictions are usually correct
on average right so on average for a car
of heat this year of this manufacturer
with this mileage this is on average how
much this car costs right so for a
specific car it might not be correct
so it can predict smaller value or
higher volume but on average
it's
more or less correct
so once we have this model
we can actually use it to help our user
if we again talk about an example when
we want to help our user determine the
price of a car so the user puts all the
information about the car in our form so
all these things we talked about
then we can extract this information as
features right year make mileage and so
on and we put this in a model
and what the model produces
is the price so and we take the
predictions of a model the output of the
model and put it in the form and this
way we help the user so the user is
happy because they don't need to
go through this
procedure of trying to figure out what
is the right price
to help them and if they want they can
adjust the price put it higher or lower
depending on
what they want so this way we can use
machine learning to help the user
determine the
best price of the car right
and in summary so we have machine
learning
and machine learning is a process of
extracting patterns from data and data
is usually of two types so we have
features this is all the information
about the object
and target is this is what we want to
predict about the object
and output is uh the model that it
consistently encapsulates that contains
all these patterns
right in the example we talked about the
features are all these characteristics
of a car
and the target variable is the price so
we put this in machine learning and the
output of this
is a model that we can use later
and the way we use it is we take the
features so all the data we
have about the objects without the
target variable right
we put them in the model and the model
outputs predictions it tries to predict
the
target variable from the features that
we provide and in our example
we took the information about the car
here make mileage on
and we put this in the model and the
model produced
the predictions of the price and this is
what we can use
later and
in the application to help the user make
to select the best price
so this is how you can use machine
learning and in the next lesson we will
talk about
we will compare machine learning with
rule-based systems and rule-based system
is like a more traditional way
of making predictions and we will uh
work we will talk about a spam detection
system and we will illustrate the
differences between machine learning and
rule-based systems on that example so
stay tuned